---
layout: post
title: "Time: How to use the time you have most efficiently"
date: 2017-9-6
---

This is part of a series of posts about productivity techniques that have helped me during my time at Bloc learning web development. Working full time and then doing 15-20 hours of work on the side, in addition to the responsibilities I have at home, made these skills that much more necessary.

### A few notes before we get started:
- **Disclaimer**: This post is partly a, hopefully useful, article for others and partly a written reminder to myself of what I am supposed to be doing. These are all based on my personal experiences of what works, results may vary.
- **Lists**: I like lists. Make a list of all of the things you do every day. The common denominators that build your routine. Make a second list noting ways to make it easy and efficient, ideally as you read the rest of this post.
- **I am terrible at mornings**: Mornings are, in my experience, delicate and should be made as idiot-proof as possible to ensure a smooth start to your day.

Okay, moving on to the good stuff! I've compiled the below list of all time-management tips I could think of. I intend to update it from time to time. I hope you find it useful.

----

### Routines and Systems:
- **Essentials**: You know that stuff you use pretty much every day of your life? Keys, wallet, phone, bag, etc. That stuff should have a home. It should not rest *anywhere but its home.* Never ever. My keys go on a hook with my work badge, my bag goes on one of our coat hooks, my phone lives in my hand or in the spot in the master-bathroom I charge it in, etc.

### Automate:
- **Coffee**: Start simple. If you drink coffee, make it the night before.
- **Bills**: Available with everything nowadays. For most people, there should be no reason to have to risk late fees.
- **Calendar**: Any recurring dates you need to remember would be well suited to a digital calendar of some kind. I use Google Calendar for pretty much everything, but especially for things that happen repeatedly. Birthdays, anniversaries, payday, bill due dates (automatically withdrawn of course!), class times, date night, monthly free museum days, flea medicine for doggo, my turns for making dinner, etc.
- **Alarms**: For most people I imagine that this is a no-brainer, set your alarm on your phone or on your clock: Done. Not so! I have trouble waking up in the morning, particularly because it is still dark out. Solution? I have a light that turns on slowly so that by the time my alarm goes off, it's fully on, making it that much easier to remain awake.

---

<ul><b>Further reading</b>
  {% for post in site.posts %}
    <li>
      <a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
    </li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
