---
layout: post
title: "Focus: Tips for fighting back against the beast known as Procrastination"
date: 2017-9-6
---

This is part of a series of posts about productivity techniques that have helped me during my time at Bloc learning web development. Working full time and then doing 15-20 hours of work on the side, in addition to the responsibilities I have at home, made these skills that much more necessary.

Procrastination, everyone does it. Anyone who says otherwise is either a robot (report to your local authorities) or ~~lying through their teeth~~ hiding it.
- Limit your choices,
- We will always take the path of least resistance: Make it more difficult to procrastinate and make it easy to do your actual task.

### Distractions:
I have a problem with distractions that cannot be handled through willpower alone. The only way I have found to deal with it is to remove everything that could possibly distract me and then... Well, there's nothing left but what I am supposed to be doing, is there? My goal is always to make the "correct" path the easiest path by removing obstacles from it and placing hurtles between me and the "wrong" path.
- **Notifications**: Change all of your notification settings to "off" on your phone. Unsubscribe from all email lists and email notifications. Turn off all but the most vital notifications on your computer. No more interruptions from them!
- **The internet**: This is a trouble spot for me. I love the internet, as many of us do, it is endlessly entertaining and useful. That's the problem though, it is the ultimate distractor! I used <a href="//getcoldturkey.com/">Cold Turkey</a> on my computer to set a strict schedule of when I am allowed to use what on my computer.
- **Phone**: T

-----

<ul><b>Further reading</b>
  {% for post in site.posts %}
    <li>
      <a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a>
    </li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
